Might turn it into a comic or something. I kinda wish I could withold this until I make all the frames but it kinda goes against the sprit of the project to do that.
Plus, it could also be a PMDO cutscene.

I - Iris (Neon/Ampharos)
C - Coffee (Vivi/Flareon)
W - Woot? Idk it sounds like he got pressured making a pokesona eventually. Ty Vivi!

?: Hey, you promised that you'd tell your own story today.
I: Oh. Yeah... frick.

I: It's never easy to open up... until I get going.

Iris covers her eyes.
I: Just...

Iris uncovers her eyes.
I: Wait- Trigger warning. It might be kind of sad.
I: You can go if you don't really wanna hear about the story of..
I: (sigh) a runaway.

Iris covers her eyes.
I: ... 

I: Just... Don't make a sound real quick...

Iris takes a heavy breath. And pauses for a long while.

I: I...

I: ...

I: I always felt like something was just, wrong.
I: Even when I was in very acceptable situations.

I: ...

I: I'm... not even really talking about using the 'capsule or anything like that- though it was very much about the same feeling. (Referring to Gender Capsules in PMDO. Iris is trans.)

I: There was nothing-
I: Buh... If I say the full thing it'd feel like the worst lie in my life.

I: But literally, my trainer did stuff with me, I had some freedom that I'm sure other trainers didn't give
I: My trainer was nice, is what I mean to say.

I: But, those feelings never went away. Feelings of pain, and a lack of control. Things that threw me into a panic about situations that were just everyday life- nor were they true.

I: I tried everything I could to quiet them.
I: Tinting my skin pink like these "shinys" as the humans kept calling them.
I: Sleeping with the other pokemon to hopefully feel less alone.
I: And eventually, I thought I could resolve my trainer not knowing how I felt.

I: Learning english was the obvious barrier to that, so with what control I had, I pushed for lots of library visits so I could learn.
I: Learning to communicate what was burning inside me.

I: And shoutouts to the librarians, they were extremely nice to me. I just wish they had a chance to hear that.

I: But as I pushed and talked back, the more I learned that there was no mechanism to explain myself.
I: How could I describe something that I don't even know the cause of?

I: I started running out to the forest alone. Most wild pokemon were much less powerful than me, so it became just a place to... relax.
I: One day I stumbled out here, into Wootsville.

I: I didn't know these pokemon villages were a thing, but Woot introduced me here, and, it was just-

I: ...

I: It was so comfy that I stayed overnight. That was when I started feeling so terrible about missing my trainer.

I: They were probably desperately looking for me!
I: ...I still don't know how to feel about you guys' support.

I: I know my trainer is going through such terrible grief because of me.
I: I've tried to stop thinking about it since. I don't know if I'm happier this way, but I can't go back.

I: I have more responsibilities, but I have control over everything. I can be deliberate now.

I: It's extremely depressing to think about him, but... it at least comes up less often than a panic attack used to.
I: All I know is that if I go back, the feelings will come back, and I really don't want that.

I: -oh, and the location of this place. I have to keep that secret for life pretty much.

I: I can't put myself in a situation where I have to talk about Wootsville, Treasure Town, or any of this pokemon-run society.
I: 'less it be disturbed by humans.

